The future of AR is far more fascinating and interesting. 
There is no doubt that these twin technologies will change our phones – conceivably AR has the potential to destroy the smartphone all together. 
As we are required to hold up our phones all the time, how about if we don’t have to do that.
we could just have a pair of smart glasses with the same technology instead?

Think of a world where all the digital information is infused with the world around us, 
such as while taking a stroll in the park, messages from our friends pop-up in the corner of our field of vision or may be if we lose our way back home,
a voice instruction can be issued to navigate us and have direction arrows appearing as if they are markings on the pavement. 
Oh, and if we come across a person whom we recognise but can’t figure out where from? No problem, 
facial recognition software comes to the rescue which will pull up their twitter feed and give the required details.
You might think, all of this is only possible in a science fiction, but the kind of technology that could make something like this possible are now just about here.
So, the future is here, you just need to explore, accept and adapt to these new technologies.

According to different market studies, Virtual Reality is projected to grow exponentially in five years to come.
As the metaverse develops at an accelerated pace, the expansion of AR, VR and MR is inevitable.
The pandemic has acted as a catalyst in creating a virtual world where we can experience many of the same social events and interactions that we enjoy in the physical world. 
Company investments are shifting, and the performance of head-mounted displays (HMDs) and other smart device technology will progress with it. 
Take the following statistics into consideration:

• According to BCG and Mordor Intelligence survey, the current market value for AR/VR/MR is around $30.7 billion, 
and the market size worldwide of the AR/VR/MR market is to rise to $300 billion by 2024.

• Seven percent of the U.S. population uses VR, and 28.1% use AR monthly, based on an Insider Intelligence and eMarketer report.

• An IDC report forecasts a $4.1 billion investment into training use of AR/VR/MR.

• AR/VR use for on-site assembly and safety will have a CAGR of 177.4% by 2023, according to an IDC survey.

• Kommando Tech states that 70% of consumers believe AR can bring them benefits.

• IDC reported, "The worldwide market for augmented reality and virtual reality (AR/VR) headsets grew 92.1% year over year in 2021 with shipments reaching 11.2 million units."

Applications And Exciting Uses For AR/VR/MR

Several recently developed opportunities and some practical uses for existing applications result from an increase in investments and spending in the market.

What challenges will AR/VR/MR help solve across all industries?

1. Closing The Skills Gap: As more jobs become remote, VR has become an increasingly used tool for training employees and staff. Employees can also develop skills that directly apply to those needed on the job.

2. Lower Maintenance And Service Costs: Remote service through AR/VR/MR technology has created cost efficiencies and increased throughput without reducing customer satisfaction.

3. Design And Production Efficiency: Parts and mechanisms can be digitally created and tested in AR, VR and MR solutions before production starts. This helps reduce time in R&D, ultimately driving down costs.

What opportunities is AR/VR/MR creating?

1. The Metaverse: A new era of possibilities is created in the virtual world. Everything we do in the physical world will eventually be possible in a virtual world. Social interaction, work and even trading art in the form of NFTs can be accomplished in the metaverse, which AR/VR/MR solutions have enabled.

2. Tech For Enhanced Living: Simple everyday tasks are enhanced using AR/VR/MR. Wearables will be used to give tutorials for cooking, building, creating and everything in between. Kinesthetic learning is one of the most preferred forms of learning and will continue to increase in popularity due to generational shifts. Ultimately, this provides a significant advantage for this technology.

3. A New Way To Sell: More compelling marketing efforts are created from the implementation of AR/VR on websites. From showing off the design and features of products to offering a complete product demo, AR, VR and MR provide significant advantages to marketing and sales.

Finally, how will AR/VR/MR technology develop to accommodate the growth of the market?

There are several more AR/VR/MR technology uses that can directly impact company costs, throughput and our everyday lives. The benefits will continue to expand as investments in this technology and the adoption of it increase.

Market demands drive the need for AR/VR/MR products to go to market faster with increased performance standards. The improvement of HMD performance will enable the development of the metaverse and the continuous expansion of applications. Using optical metrology and high-precision robotics to test and develop AR/VR/MR solutions is the key to achieving a better consumer experience and increasing the adoption rate of the technology.

Implementing AR/VR/MR In Your Organization

When running a successful organization, it is essential to introduce new technologies as the world progresses. How these technologies are introduced can define your business's outcome. There are costs and transformation logistics to be understood in every such situation. As such, here are some best practices that can help with the implementation of AR/VR/MR technology in your organization:

1. Do proper research to find out if the technology at the current level is effective and valuable if used in your company.

2. Educate people in your organization about the technology and its potential. This training will help different functions develop proposals on how they could possibly benefit from the technology.

3. Provide incentives for technology adoption proposals from different units.

4. Decide on the pilot area to implement the technology. The best pilot area could be where something is not working as expected and where the new technology can change the situation for the better. Understand the costs, functionality, usability and, most importantly, testability of the new implementation.

5. Decide on what function and scale the technology will be implemented. It is important to identify if the chosen technology will be AR, VR and/or MR.

6. Identify your key stakeholders and customers (internal and/or external) and engage with them from the beginning.

7. Build a project and allocate dedicated team and resources to it—and offer productive support by committing to a full program.

8. Create an implementation blueprint.

9. Set expectations for pilot success. This will help prove technical feasibility to management or serve as a credible model for other units in the organization.

10. Communicate openly and frequently about the direct value of the technology to your organization and its success—and how it will be adapted.

11. Have a plan ready to help your organization build momentum on your successes.

In the end, it's most important to encourage your employees to be curious and enjoy the technology evaluation and adoption process.
