Overview:
Mars was first discovered in 1610 by Galileo Galilei. It was a telescopic observation that was made when Mars was locate opposite to  Sun and was closest to Earth. The idea of life on Mars first originated when the astronomers falsely thought that they have discovered the multiphotonic signature of water in the celestial atmosphere.
At an average distance of 140 million miles, Mars is one of Earth's closest habitable neighbors.

Why Mars is our Second Home?
The idea of life on Mars has been creating a lot of interest in the minds of people. Also, there are some people who couldn’t even believe the discovery whereas some do. There are a few reasons why mars can be our second home. The first reason being the soil of Mars has the potential to extract water as water and soil are the biggest natural sources. Healthy soil gives nutrients to the world.
Secondly, Mars has a medium temperature where it is neither too hot nor too cold which is why it is one of the best reasons to consider Mars. The third reason is that it has enough good sunlight to use solar panels to obtain power. Mars gets a good amount of energy as it is situated in the fourth position. The fourth reason being astronomers believe that human beings can adapt to the gravity on Mars as it is 38% of that of Earth.  Fifthly, Mars has an atmosphere that can give safety against cosmic and ultraviolet rays. Lastly, Mars is the only planet that lies in the habitual zone other than Earth which makes Mars our second home.

How we Humans are trying to go to Mars?

1.NASA
NASA is developing the capabilities needed to send humans to an asteroid by 2025 and Mars in the 2030s – goals outlined in the bipartisan NASA Authorization Act of 2010 and in the U.S. National Space Policy, also issued in 2010.
Our next step is deep space, where NASA will send a robotic mission to capture and redirect an asteroid to orbit the moon. Astronauts aboard the Orion spacecraft will explore the asteroid in the 2020s, returning to Earth with samples. This experience in human spaceflight beyond low-Earth orbit will help NASA test new systems and capabilities, such as Solar Electric Propulsion, which we’ll need to send cargo as part of human missions to Mars. Beginning in FY 2018, NASA’s powerful Space Launch System rocket will enable these “proving ground” missions to test new capabilities. Human missions to Mars will rely on Orion and an evolved version of SLS that will be the most powerful launch vehicle ever flown.

2.SpaceX:
Starship will be the world’s most powerful launch vehicle ever developed, with the ability to carry in excess of 100 metric tonnes to Earth orbit. Drawing on an extensive history of launch vehicle and engine development programs, SpaceX has been rapidly iterating on the design of Starship with orbital-flight targeted for 2020.
Together the Starship spacecraft and Super Heavy rocket create a reusable transportation system capable of on orbit refueling and leveraging Mars’ natural H2O and CO2 resources to refuel on the surface of Mars.

Why it is necessory for us to go to Mars?
We should note, a direct hit from a comet is but one of several ways humanity could become extinct without (relatively speaking) any warning. Although we will not spend too much time looking at all the grim ways we could meet such a collective end, just to highlight the need to have a “plan b” as far as a planetary home further, it is perhaps worth briefly considering how many ways humanity could meet this end should a cosmic relocation not be a possibility.
There is also the danger that we might bring about our own sudden demise in the event of a nuclear war. And while that danger is perhaps – at least from a general perception – not as pressing as it might have been during the Cold Years of the second half of the twentieth century, as long as weapons of such a nuclear nature exist on Earth, the cold fact is the potential of nuclear annihilation remains. If it was to happen, although the window for escape would likely be reduced to the nature of surprise in warfare, we might imagine that a small proportion of the world’s population would escape to a colony if one was to exist on Mars.
